hello and welcome to a hardware layout walkthrough for computer architecture for everybody this
walkthrough is going to design a CMOS NOR gate circuit which is actually one of the assignments
but i'm going to use this to show you how the tool works so let's go across the top we have a button
to add a switch so that's how we give inputs we have a button to add a probe that's how we measure
outputs so you click the probe button and then you click where the probe is at and you'll notice
that the switch has a little output dot and the probe has an input and an output dot then you can
put some transistors down you can put NMOS transistors down the way i remember NMOS transistors
is NMOS transistors are like the original ones that basically when their input is one they're
conducting and when their input is zero they're not conducting and then you have a PMOS transistor
where it's the opposite so let me just connect this little input five volt input to the inputs
of the NMOS that i put at the bottom and the PMOS that i put at the top and so you'll see that
when i'm pointing five volts to the NMOS it's on and the PMOS is off and then when i flip it
to zero volts the PMOS is on and the NMOS is off okay so so you can place all three of these
components and you can draw wires by basically dragging them to the inputs and then you have
the ability to move things around all right you can move them around by pressing the little hand
and then dragging and moving them around you have a little trash can icon that allows you to get rid
of something you can clear it all you can actually load and store circuits so i can save this one as
test one and then you can load it back up and so that way you can work on a circuit
and then reload it now this is the same circuit but this way you can walk away from your computer
now this actually stores the circuits in local storage on your browser not in the server so the
same browser will have your circuits now let's just go ahead and delete that circuit delete test one
okay and you won't see this instructor button but then here's the assignment button so if you
click on the assignment button it tells you what your assignment is and it also lets you see the
in this case because it's a NOR gate you can see the truth table and again remember NOR is not OR
you know if either of them are true then OR would be true but really it's not OR so they're false
so the only time that this output is supposed to be high is when both A and B are low so let's also
take a look at the reference image and this is straight from the lecture so we have our voltage
at the top and then we have two PMOS transistors in series to the common output and then we have
two NMOS's in parallel and part of this is is remember that NMOS's conduct when they're a one
so if A is a one or B is a one ground is going to conduct out and the only way a one or a positive
is going to conduct out is if A and B are both zero okay so that is the definition of NAND and
so I tend to to draw these and most people tend to draw these with the PMOS's near the top and the
NMOS's near the bottom in the real world they get laid out much more intricately but that's okay
right now we're kind of pretending that we have NMOS transistors and PMOS transistors so let's go
ahead and start putting this together so one of the things we need to do is we need to put in
two switches so I'm going to put a second switch in and then I'm going to put labels on those
switches so I'm going to say this switch is A so the top switch is A and then press the label button
again and then I say that's bottoms I select the bottom switch and that is B and uh let's see here
I'm gonna I'm gonna start over fresh let me just delete let me delete the transistors so we can
sort of file the diagram so we've got an A and a B input and then we're going to put two PMOS
transistors at the top kind of in series so we just kind of connect them end to end and we'll
just connect from the in between them we take the S and the D and we connect them in between
and so that's sort of the top part of the circuit so I might as well connect the A input and the B
input to these guys okay and then we have to put a couple of NMOS's well okay we'll put a couple of
NMOS's here and we'll put them sort of next to each other just like in the diagram I guess I
should connect the the positive voltage to the top PMOS transistor and then I am going to connect
just like in the picture I'm going to connect the bottom of the second PMOS transistor to
the top of the NMOS transistors but the output of these NMOS transistors is supposed to be
connected together and so we're going to have a common output and it turns out that when we
put our probe here we can connect it to any of these connections because they're just one wire
basically so they're all connected together and so that's our output and then the next thing we need
to do is connect our input to both of the NMOS transistors at the bottom and you see it's kind of
toggling on and off and then the last thing we've got to do is we got to connect the ground
to the bottom of the NMOS transistors so at this point I think that I have replicated this circuit
on the right hand side so let's take a look at the specifications we're supposed to add a probe
component and label it Q so we need to go to the label button and put Q on as our label that way
the grader can grade it connect the inputs the A and B are the inputs let's let's look at the truth
table and so right now we have A as zero and B is zero so if we make them both zero then we should
get a one as the output so A and B are now both zero and Q is output of one so now if we turn any
of these to one the output would be zero so A of one and B of zero is the output of zero A of one
and B of one output is zero and let's see which one B of one output B of one and A of zero output
of one and so the only time the output turns to one is when both A and B and so we have correctly
built replicated the image that we had from class and we have tested it so now let's see if the
auto grader likes it so let's see what it does so at first it looks to see if we have A and B and Q
labeled correctly and then it says we're going to go through it looks like it's going to go through
all the truth tables truth table truth table truth table and we have been successful and let's save
this before we're done this is a NOR and so if we come back we could load this back up so if you're
fooling around and you're building your own circuits and so you you can save things or if
you're working on it and you're not sure you got it right you want to go back and watch the lecture
so I think that pretty much covers all of the feature of our CMOS layout editor for computer
architecture for everybody cheers